## JS230 Lesson 3: Making HTTP Requests from JavaScript

### Summary

### Notes

* What to Focus On
  * **Think HTTP**
    * HTTP is the protocol used by the network operations we cover in this lesson. You must be familiar with the request-response cycle, the components of each part, and how you can access these values from JS.
  * **Be Familiar with `XMLHttpRequest`**
    * Know how to use `XMLHttpRequest` to send requests and how to execute code at specific points as the request moves through its lifecycle.
    * Know how to handle successful and unsuccessful requests.
  * **Understand how to Serialize Data**
    * Know how to use `XMLHttpRequest` to submit a form from a webpage and send requests using JSON-formatted data.
  * **Decompose Functionality into API Requests**
    * While each API is different, you should be able to translate a requirement that says "create a post on the server" into "make a POST request to `/posts` with the required JSON data" and be able to write the code that does it.
  * **Read API Documentation**
    * Don't try to memorize the details of the web APIs that we discuss. Try instead to internalize the conventions you see and learn to find the specifics in the documentation.

________

* Book: Working with Web APIs
  * See notes in `launch_school/open_book_shelf`

________

* Network Programming in JavaScript
  * **AJAX** / **A**synchronoux **J**avaScript **A**nd **X**ML enables developers to fetch data (typically HTML or XML) and update specific parts of a page. 
    * "An AJAX request" or "via AJAX" refers to an HTTP request from a browser that *does not perform a full page load*.
  * Single Page Applications
    * A **single page application** runs entirely within a single HTML page: instead of fetching bits of HTML generated by a server, this model does all interactions by passing data to and from the server, often encoded as JSON.

________

* Making a Request with `XMLHttpRequest`

_________

* XMLHttpRequest` Events

_________

* Data Serialization

________

* Cross-Domain `XMLHttpRequests` with CORS

### Concepts/Vocab

